Edit UK tax post (#2468)
PolicyEngine/policyengine-app: src/posts/articles/uk-taxes-post.md

The post is organised into three main sections. First, we explain direct taxes (income tax, national insurance, and capital gains tax), which are collected directly from individuals and businesses. Next, we cover indirect taxes (VAT and fuel duty) which are embedded in the prices of goods and services. Finally, we explore both existing property and land taxes (including stamp duty variations across UK nations, business rates, and council tax) and contributed/proposed taxes (such as carbon tax, wealth tax, land value tax, and others) that are modelled in PolicyEngine but not currently implemented in the UK.

> The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's 2025 fiscal year revenue projections with 2025-26 fiscal year projections from the government (such as the Office for Budget Responsibility). While PolicyEngine models interactions from instituting or repealing tax and benefit programs, this chart shows only the direct revenue collected from each tax, for consistency with government reports. It also shows PolicyEngine's projection for the percentage of the population affected by each tax in 2025. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's 2025-26 fiscal year revenue projections with those from the government (such as the Office for Budget Responsibility). While PolicyEngine models interactions from instituting or repealing tax and benefit programs, this chart shows only the direct revenue collected from each tax, for consistency with government reports. It also shows PolicyEngine's projection for the percentage of the population affected by each tax in 2025. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.
```

Author: Done.

> The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's revenue estimates with official OBR forecasts, and showing the percentage of the population affected by each tax. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.

Reviewer 2: Yes that table includes DWP sources. Though to be clear we're comparing fiscal year with fiscal years.

> The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's revenue estimates with official OBR forecasts, and showing the percentage of the population affected by each tax. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.

Author: Done.

> The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's revenue estimates with official OBR forecasts, and showing the percentage of the population affected by each tax. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.

Reviewer 2: @vahid-ahmadi it still says calendar year.

> The table below summarises key metrics for each tax in the UK system, comparing PolicyEngine's revenue estimates with official OBR forecasts, and showing the percentage of the population affected by each tax. In the following sections, we dive deeper into each of these taxes, examining their structure, implementation, and distributional impact across income groups.

Author: Oh I see! corrected.

| Program                            | PolicyEngine revenue estimate £billion (2025)                                                                                    | OBR revenue estimate (2025-26)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | PolicyEngine affected population estimate % (2025) |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |

> | Income tax                         | 322.2                                                                                                                            | [328.7](https://obr.uk/forecasts-in-depth/tax-by-tax-spend-by-spend/income-tax/)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 80.2                                               |

Author: Done.

> | National Insurance                 | 179.8                                                                                                                            | [198.8](https://obr.uk/forecasts-in-depth/tax-by-tax-spend-by-spend/national-insurance-contributions-nics/)                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | 67.5                                               |

Reviewer 2: Huh- we're actually missing [National Insurance](https://policyengine.github.io/policyengine-uk-data/validation/national.html) as a target. This probably happened when moving the targets to OBR values, or during constituency calibration. Filed https://github.com/PolicyEngine/policyengine-uk-data/issues/88 to add.

  - **Child benefit high income tax charge (HITC)**: A tax charge on high earners who or whose partner receives child benefit. Child benefit rates in 2025 are £26.04 per week for the eldest child and £17.24 per week for each additional child. The HITC withdraws this benefit when income exceeds a threshold, with full withdrawal at a higher threshold, calculated as [`child_benefit_hitc`](https://github.com/PolicyEngine/policyengine-uk/blob/master/policyengine_uk/variables/gov/hmrc/income_tax/charges/child_benefit_hitc.py).

> PolicyEngine estimates that income tax raises government revenue by £322.2 billion in 2025. The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) estimates that income tax revenue for 2025-26 is [£328.7 billion](https://obr.uk/forecasts-in-depth/tax-by-tax-spend-by-spend/income-tax/). The following figure shows the distributional impact of this program.

Reviewer: Apply a similar structure in other sections.
```suggestion
PolicyEngine projects that the UK will collect £322.2 billion in income tax revenue in 2025, 2.0% less than the OBR's forecast of [£328.7 billion](https://obr.uk/forecasts-in-depth/tax-by-tax-spend-by-spend/income-tax/). The following figure shows the distributional impact of this program.
```

Author: Done.
